Welcome back to Movie Recaps.
Today I will show you a sci-fi drama film
from 2016, titled Arrival.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
As a beautiful view from a lake house is seen,
a woman's voice narrates, lamenting about
memory and time.
The same woman, called Louise, is cuddling
with her newborn baby.
Then she plays cowboys with the child, now
some years older.
She's tucking her daughter in bed as she says
she loves her and in the next moment, she's
a teenager saying she hates her.
The two of them are at the doctor and Louise
gets terrible news about her child.
The daughter dies from cancer.
Louise is walking into a building, still narrating
about the simplicity of linear time, noting
how some days define the bigger story, like
the day the aliens arrived.
Everyone in the building is grouping around
a screen, but she passes by them.
She walks into her almost empty classroom
and starts the lecture.
Immediately, phones start buzzing and ringing,
until one of her students asks her to put
on the news.
They are reporting a mysterious object touching
down in Montana, as well as in at least 8
other countries around the world.
Alarms start blaring in the classroom and
Louise dismisses the lecture.
Louise continues listening to the news in
her car, the speculation is that the, now,
12 objects are of extraterrestrial origin.
She arrives in her home by the lakeside, talking
to her mother on the phone about the news.
Her mother is worried about her.
Louise keeps watching the news.
The objects are seen on the TV, spread across
the world with no obvious link between the
locations they've landed on.
Governmental agencies report that they have
protocols for such scenarios, but Louise looks
unfazed by the situation and falls asleep
in front of the TV.
Two days later, Louise comes back to an empty
University, so she continues watching the
news from her office.
As she listens to the reports about the worlds
reaction to the alien crafts, a man walks
into her office, introducing himself as an
army Colonel.
Considering her previous experience with the
army intelligence in translating certain things
and her ongoing security clearance, he asks
her to translate something for them again
and puts a recorder on the desk.
The recording is of a human team trying to
communicate with the aliens.
She's shocked and confused, but the Colonel
persists with questions she can't answer for
him from an audio file.
He gets angry and tells her that he can't
take her to Montana.
It's either translating from the file or nothing.
When she says nothing, he leaves her office.
But, that night Louise is woken up by the
sound of helicopters coming to her house.
The Colonel is at her door telling her to
pack her bags.
They leave in a helicopter in the middle of
the night.
Inside, she meets the person she will be working
with, Ian, a theoretical physicist.
He quotes some of her writing on linguistics
and comments that the cornerstone of civilization
isn't language, but science.
As day breaks, the helicopter is getting closer
to Montana.
Louise looks out of the windows and sees the
giant UFO in the distance.
Once they arrive at the army camp, her and
Ian have to go through certain protocols.
On the way to medical, their phones are taken
away and are given special IDs.
The doctor performs a few tests and gives
them an immunization booster.
After that, they're taken into the main part
of the camp, where links with the other 12
countries have been established.
The representative of Australia explains some
kind of situation with the gravity and air
circulation in the vessel, explaining that
they only have 2 hours of air once inside.
The Colonel comes in and takes the two of
them to their stations, introducing them to
their teams and explaining the priorities
of the mission.
Immediately after, they are getting into hazmat
suits and preparing to go inside the ship.
As they approach it, Louise looks as if she's
nauseous and Ian is excited.
The army vehicles approach the ship that looks
huge from bellow.
Ian, Louise, the Colonel and a few others
are taken into the ship with an elevator.
They go in through an opening at the base,
as they slowly lose radio signal.
The gravity is completely different inside
of the ship and as they start walking up,
Louise starts feeling sick so the Colonel
pushes her in.
Ian takes a moment to get accustomed to the
gravity too.
The team moves toward the window opening to
start the communication.
Suddenly, the aliens arrive at the window
in a gust of what looks like smoke.
Strange sounds can be heard from the other
side as they appear.
Louise is afraid when she sees the giant heptapod
creatures, but the Colonel expects her to
start translating what seems like noise coming
from the other side.
The team gets back at the base and Louise
is asking if she's fired, as Ian is vomiting
on the other side.
The Colonel informs her that she has just
a few hours to figure something out, until
they go back in again.
A few soldiers watch the news, reporting that
the panic around the world has reached another
level.
Meanwhile agent Halpern is talking to Australia's
team again, telling him that they still have
nothing.
Louise and her team get back inside and this
time she has taken a whiteboard with her.
She writes down the word human and approaches
the creatures, hoping that communication would
be easier in written form.
Suddenly, the creatures disappear and when
they reappear they start writing back in their
own language.
They show her one symbol and then a few more
as well.
Back at the camp, the Colonel wonders if her
new approach is going to be fast enough and
she convinces him by making up a story about
the Aborigines.
To that, he reminds her what happened to them
when the Europeans colonized the continent.
He also tells her to have a vocabulary list
before the next mission.
Louise goes to the main communications part
of the base, where Ian is talking to a colleague.
Agent Halpern, tells her that China has taken
a completely different approach toward the
aliens than theirs.
The Colonel meets up with her and she gives
him her list.
He's not impressed with the simplistic list,
so she explains it to him by writing the most
important question, he needs answered, on
the board.
Louise breaks down the question and what she
needs to know about it, so they could understand
their answer.
The alarm goes off and he tells her to stick
to her list and not add anything.
Once inside, she writes down her name and
the aliens respond with the first symbol,
just slightly altered.
Louise takes of her suit, saying they need
to see her.
The soldiers panic, but let her do it.
As she approaches the window, so do the aliens.
She touches the window and the alien does
he same, so she shows them her name again
and one of them gives her a new symbol.
Louise thinks she's making progress, so Ian
takes his suit off too and introduces himself.
In return, the aliens give them two more symbols,
which Louise thinks are their names.
The team comes back to the base camp and she
starts feeling sick, suddenly, remembering
something about the child.
Back at medical, the doctor is upset that
she's putting herself in risk by taking off
her suit.
The Colonel and Agent Halpern are prepared
to take that risk considering her progress.
Meanwhile, Captain Marks talks to his wife,
afraid that something might happen to him.
Louise is working on her translation, when
she starts remembering the child again, but
she seems confused.
Some months into the start of the communication
with the aliens, this is what Louise, Ian
and the other experts have learned.
The alien ships emit no waste, gas, radiation,
sound or light.
If the ships communicate with each other,
it's undetectable to humans.
The experts still don't know why the heptopods
landed where they did.
Louise is the only one making some headway.
She learns that there is no correlation between
what the aliens say and write.
That makes their writing free of time, with
no forward or backward direction.
It takes Louise a month to form a reply to
a simple sentence the aliens write, so getting
to the complex question about the purpose
of them being on Earth would take more time.
Meanwhile, the world is going insane.
The news are reporting violent riots and massive
protests, as a leaked picture of the aliens
goes viral.
Captain Marks and another soldier start listening
to conspiracy theorists online and seem to
have started believing in it.
Louise is working on the translation of the
symbols, when she starts remembering the child
again.
The girl is showing her some drawings she's
made and they're talking about Louise's divorce.
Ian asks her if she's ok, but she can't explain
what's wrong.
The Colonel walks in and asks when she last
checked in with the doctor.
Louise walks outside and remembers tangled
up moments in time with the child, from the
time when she was little up to the point when
she became sick.
Back at the base, she's talking to Ian again.
He's read about a theory which states that
learning another language changes the way
you think.
He's curious if she dreams in their language.
She's scared that Ian thinks she's unfit to
do the job, as she hallucinates a heptopod
standing next to her in the room.
She wakes up the next day and the Colonel
is at the door.
He asks her to translate a live feed of General
Shang speaking on the phone.
Shang is saying that each of the 12 is offering
advanced technology and that his science team
is decoding the "sets".
The Colonel tells Louise that both China and
Russia are mobilizing their forces, about
to start something.
So he tells her that it's time to ask the
aliens the big question.
Louise, Ian and the team are back in the ship.
She tries to pose the question and formulate
a symbol.
The alien answers.
Everyone is waiting for her translation, which
turns out to be "offer weapon".
Louise and Ian defend the aliens back at the
camp, saying that they don't fully understand
the difference between a weapon and a tool
yet.
The Colonel wants to know how he can understand
their intentions and she says she needs to
talk to them again.
Agent Halpern joins Ian and Louise after the
army leaves, saying that he thinks the aliens
are pitting the humans against each other
and says history is littered with such examples.
Louise and Ian are left alone in the room,
when an alarm suddenly blares.
They go to the main communications room, where
agent Halpern is saying that China and Russia
have gone dark and that he has orders to do
the same.
Louise doesn't want the communication to stop,
so he tells her to find out what the latest
symbol means.
All of the other countries break communication
as well.
Meanwhile, the news are reporting that General
Shang has asked for immediate talks in the
UN, thinking that the aliens are trying to
divide humanity and that something should
be done about that.
Captain Marks and another soldier are getting
ready to go inside the ship, taking a package
with them.
They're not responding to the radio, as they
are being ordered to stop.
Once inside, the package is revealed to be
a ticking bomb.
The heptopods notice something is happening.
As Marks and his team are leaving, Louise
and Ian get on the elevator to go inside the
ship.
He tries to stop them, but can't.
Both of them walk inside and immediately start
the communication.
The Colonel is being informed that Marks isn't
responding and orders security to be sent
at the ship.
Louise and Ian try to ask the aliens what
"offer weapon" means, and they get a symbol
back, but as it dissipates, one of the aliens
starts tapping on the window.
Meanwhile, security is approaching the ship
and Marks and the others prepare their weapons
to hold them off.
The alien puts his tentacle on the barrier
and Louise thinks it wants her to write on
it.
The moment she touches the barrier, visions
of the child start flooding her mind again.
The alien teaches her how to write in their
language.
The bomb is ticking down fast and one of the
aliens escapes, while the other keeps on writing.
They hear gunshots outside of the ship.
As the bomb goes under 10 seconds, the alien
hits the barrier, pushing Louise and Ian back.
The bomb explodes, but the alien had saved
them by pushing them in another part of the
ship and closing a hatch between them and
the bomb.
Louise wakes up in the camp with a concussion.
Ian is alright as well.
The doctor tells her about what happened.
She hears alarms outside and he tells her
that they're preparing to evacuate.
Ian and the Colonel are looking through the
footage of the last session in the ship, as
she walks in and says that they shouldn't
leave.
She thinks they should explain to the aliens
what happened and that as long as the aliens
stay, so should they.
Suddenly strange noise is heard from the outside.
Everyone walks out and see the ship moving
into a different position, but not leaving
yet.
Agent Halpern is seen talking to his boss,
who tells him that China is ready to destroy
their UFO and that they should be ready for
retaliation from the aliens.
The same can be seen on the news, with the
report that Shang has given the aliens 24
hours to leave the country or face destruction.
Other countries are thought to be following
China's lead.
Louise and Ian are going through the footage
from the last session.
She has another vision about her daughter
who asks about a technical term which she
can't recall, but then wakes up in the base
again.
Ian has had a breakthrough with the data.
His interpretation is that the data shows
only one of twelve pieces.
Both of them present the information on a
meeting with the Colonel and the FBI agent,
saying that the 12 countries need to work
together to get the full picture.
Halpern disagrees, saying that the Russians
have killed their top scientist, whose last
words have included the phrase "many become
one".
Louise thinks that means the same as what
they've learned as well.
And Ian says that they should offer their
data first, so the others will follow, in
a non-zero-sum game.
In another vision, Louise recalls that the
term her daughter asked for was the same one.
She suddenly has some kind of revelation about
the aliens and abruptly leaves the room.
Ian follows her and sees that the ship has
sent out a shuttle to pick her up from the
ground.
Louise walks inside and as it starts taking
her back to the ship it fills up with some
kind of gas.
Suddenly, she's inside the ship, on the other
side of the window.
One of the aliens approaches her and they
start communicating easily, when she asks
about the other one.
It tells her that the other one is dying.
She says she's sorry and that she needs it
to send a message to the other 12 sites.
It only replies with "use weapon", but she
doesn't understand what that means and asks
what their purpose here is again.
The alien tells her that in 3000 years they
will need humanity's help, so they are here
to help us now.
To her question about how they know the future,
images of her daughter appear in her mind
once again.
She still doesn't understand and the alien
shows her more of the vision, which is actually
her future.
Before it leaves, the alien says "weapon opens
time".
The ship leaves Louise back on the ground
and it moves position again.
She's met by Ian and the Colonel who tell
her that other countries are doing the same
as China and that they are evacuating the
camp.
She continues having visions of her daughter
in the future, who asks about her father again.
Louise tells her that she told him something
that he wasn't ready to hear, about something
that will happen related to an untreatable
disease.
Her father thought Louise made the wrong choice.
All of the ships around the world start moving,
as the armies from the different countries
are preparing to engage them.
Louise keeps going back and forth between
the present in the camp and the future with
her daughter.
In the future she opens the book she had written
and in the present she's looking at the data
from the aliens.
The book is about the alien language.
She has visions of herself teaching it in
the future and recalls it in the present.
Suddenly, she realizes she can read the data.
She knows what the weapon is.
And she tells the Colonel that it's actually
a gift.
The alien language is a gift.
She explains that when you really learn the
language, you start to think like them, in
non-linear time.
The Colonel doesn't want to listen to her.
She has another vision about what will happen
18 months in the future.
Louise is at an international celebration
and is approached by General Shang.
The only reason he's there is to meet her
in person.
She has done something incredible, by reaching
him on his private number and changing his
mind about something.
Louise says she doesn't know his private number,
so he shows it to her and says now you know.
She recalls it in the present and runs off
to call the General.
Meanwhile, agent Halpern is being told that
someone is calling China from the camp from
his own phone.
He sends his men to find the person using
it.
Louise is waiting for the call to be established
and wonders what to say.
In the future Shang tells her what she said
to him and she repeats it to him over the
phone in the present, running away from Halpern's
men.
They all surround her, as she tries to reason
with the General.
Ian shields her as she finishes her conversation,
saying she's got it.
Later in the present, the news are reporting
on an emergency press conference held by General
Shang, stating that China is standing down
and will start sharing all of their information
with the other 12.
The alien ships from around the world begin
leaving the atmosphere.
After the aliens leave Earth, her daughter's
story truly begins.
Ian and Louise become a couple and they have
Hannah together.
Louise is left with the notion about Hannah's
life and early death.
All of the pieces she had been seeing about
the future come together.
She decides to have the baby nevertheless.